Audit Report – [P1‑S1‑1] Core Architecture Definition Aeturnis Online • GitHub
repo https://github.com/Aeturnia/Aeturnis‑Project • Audit date: 2025‑07‑13

1  Scope & Method The audit compared Claude Code’s Implementation Report
IR_P1_S1_1_Core_Archite… with the current main branch of the public repository.
Verification was performed by inspecting raw file paths and package manifests.
Where a path returned 404 / Internal Error it was treated as “file not present”.

2  Executive Summary Area Status Notes Architecture document ✓ Present
docs/architecture/core_architecture_overview.md exists and matches the report’s
content and service breakdown GitHub Type‑safe event system ✓ Present
eventBus.ts & events.types.ts implemented with audit hooks and health‑check
logic GitHub GitHub Service placeholders ✓ Present Six service classes
scaffolded (e.g., banking.service.ts) with TODOs GitHub Route constants
✓ Present Example: auth.routes.ts, banking.routes.ts GitHub GitHub Shared
constants ✓ Present Comprehensive game/config constants file GitHub Type
definitions ✓ Present Auth, Banking, Character etc. verified (sample) GitHub
GitHub Prisma schema ✓ Present Six core models accurately defined GitHub Package
dependencies ✓ Present Express, Prisma, Zod, Winston, Vitest etc. declared
GitHub Controllers folder ✗ Missing Report lists src/controllers/…; no files or
.gitkeep committed (404) – e.g. auth.controller.ts Invalid URL Middleware folder
✗ Missing Paths such as middleware/auth.middleware.ts unresolved Invalid URL
Repositories folder ✗ Missing No repository classes tracked (e.g.
account.repository.ts 404) Invalid URL Empty‑dir tracking ⚠ Partial Git cannot
store empty dirs; missing folders indicate .gitkeep or placeholder MD not added.
Tests ⚠ Not yet implemented vitest is configured but no \*.test.ts files in
src/.

Overall compliance: 7 / 10 planned deliverables implemented. Foundations are
strong; a few scaffolding directories are absent from version control, but no
critical code gaps were found that block subsequent feature work.

3  Detailed Findings

# Severity Finding Impact Recommendation

F‑1 Major controllers/, middleware/, repositories/ trees not committed Breaks
stated layered pattern; newcomers cannot follow
Controller → Service → Repository flow Add .gitkeep or minimal placeholder files
so the full directory skeleton matches the architecture doc F‑2 Moderate No
repository layer abstractions yet (services will call Prisma directly) Later
refactors harder; testing harder without mockable repositories Create
interface‑based repository classes per model before service implementation
begins F‑3 Moderate No Express app/bootstrap (index.ts) committed Architectural
document references it; CI cannot start server Commit src/index.ts with minimal
Express setup and health endpoint F‑4 Moderate No middleware stubs (auth,
validation, rate‑limit) Security & validation pipeline undefined Add middleware
skeletons referenced in constants and docs F‑5 Minor No unit or integration
tests yet Quality gate (90 % coverage target) unmet Begin with event‑bus and
constants unit tests; set Vitest coverage threshold in CI F‑6 Minor controllers
folder absent means route constants are orphaned Cannot wire routes into Express
router Commit controller stubs (e.g., AuthController.register) that delegate to
services

4  Risk Assessment Risk Likelihood Severity Mitigation Divergence between docs
and codebase grows as new devs join Medium Medium Enforce “docs PR accompanies
code PR” rule; automate doc check in CI Direct data‑layer access without
repositories couples services to Prisma Medium Medium Introduce repository
interfaces now; eases future DB swaps or sharding Missing middleware leaves
security gaps (rate limiting, auth) High High Prioritise middleware scaffolding
in next sprint

5  Recommendations & Next Actions Commit missing directory skeletons with
.gitkeep or README placeholders to honour architecture contract (F‑1).

Add base Express bootstrap (src/index.ts) that registers routers and global
error handler (F‑3, F‑6).

Implement repository interfaces (AccountRepository, CharacterRepository, …) that
wrap Prisma client GitHub .

Scaffold middleware layer (auth JWT verification, Zod validation, rate‑limiter
using constants) to satisfy security policy.

Establish testing baseline:

Unit tests for constants.ts, event‑bus health check, and type guards.

Configure CI to fail when coverage < 20 % to start, then raise progressively.

Update core_architecture_overview.md if any structural decisions change, or
vice‑versa, to keep single‑source‑of‑truth intact.

6  Conclusion The Core Architecture Definition is largely implemented: key
artefacts (documentation, event system, type contracts, constants, Prisma
schema) are present and well‑structured. The main gaps are untracked empty
directories and the absence of controllers/repositories/middleware stubs;
resolving these is straightforward and will align the repository 100 % with the
approved architecture. With those corrections in place, the project is ready to
proceed to [P1‑S7‑1] Banking Service and other Phase‑1 feature work with high
confidence.
